These are Dutch/English alignment data sets that were used in experiments for the author's PhD thesis, 'Complementary Approaches to Tree Alignment', published at the University of Groningen in 2013. In this case, they were used as held-out data in order to choose a training cutoff point in the training process of TBLign. A total of 100 sentence pairs is used. Their distribution is as follows:

- 50 sentence pairs from the Europarl parallel corpus
- 35 sentence pairs from the OPUS parallel corpus
- 15 sentence pairs from the DGT parallel corpus

All of these corpora are, at the time of writing, available for free at the following URLs:

Europarl: http://www.statmt.org/europarl
OPUS: http://opus.lingfil.uu.se
DGT: http://langtech.jrc.it/DGT-TM.html

The gold standard files are under the directory gold/.

- The alignment file with constituents and word alignments is SEDE.100cutoff.only-nts.sta.xml.
- The file containing just word alignments is SEDE.100cutoff.wordalign.sta.xml.
- The source and target files (Dutch and English respectively) referring to both these sets are SEDE.100.s.tiger.xml and SEDE.100.t.tiger.xml.

We have placed automatic output files, produced by other means than TBLign, under auto/. When training with TBLign, the idea is to use, during the cutoff phase, an automatic data set that has been pre-processed to the same degree as the automatic data set in the training data phase (under trainset/). In other words, when training, it is best to use the same initial state annotators for all automatic data sets. For example, we might attempt to improve the output of a Lingua-Align model. Ideally, then, we use data sets in the various different phases - training, cutoff, devtest and, when relevant, test set - that have all been pre-processed by the same Lingua-Align model. We do this so that we can make the application of the learned rules as relevant as possible, with the assumption that this helps to improve performance over using data sets that have been produced using other means.

Currently, we have files containing the following alignments:

- bidirectional word alignments produced by GIZA++, with some alignments in the union removed by the grow-diag heuristic as applied by the Moses system (SEDE.100cutoff.wordalign.sta.xml)
- output of the statistical tree aligner Lingua-Align, using the above word alignments, among others, as features in its model, comprising a set of constituent alignments produced by a high-precision model (SEDE.100cutoff.withalign.sta.xml)
- output of Lingua-Align, but post-processed by a heuristic which adds alignments based on simple rules. The rules can be applied from source-to-target and from target-to-source. This set contains the intersection of the application of the heuristic from both directions. In future versions, we will include the script as well. The heuristic has been applied to both the word alignment set (SEDE.100cutoff.wordalign-i.sta.xml) and the Lingua-Align set (SEDE.100cutoff.withalign-i.sta.xml).

To find out how accurate your data set is, run the Perl script eval-nonterms.pl under the bin/ directory. It goes like this:

perl eval-nonterms.pl -a auto_align -g gold_align -h

The -h flag displays a header, showing which number goes with which. It can be omitted if you would like to print several lines of evaluation using a bash script, for example.

As an example, let us evaluate the Lingua-Align output:

perl ~/TBLign/bin/eval-nonterms.pl -a auto/SEDE.100cutoff.withalign.sta.xml -g gold/SEDE.100cutoff.only-nts.sta.xml -h

Precision (all)	Recall (all)	Recall (good)	Recall (fuzzy)	F-score (P_all & R_all)	F-score (P_all & R_good)
90,4	  44,1	44,7   27,0	59,3   59,8

This shows that the overall precision is 90.4 and the overall recall is 44.1. The reason there is a distinction between the recall of good (confident) and the recall of fuzzy (less confident) links is because for one type of F-score, only the recall of good links is taken into account. This is a distinction that is sometimes made in the word alignment literature. For the sake of completeness, we include both types of F-score.

Now, perhaps we would like to look at the effect of the heuristic measure on the Lingua-Align set. We run:

perl ~/TBLign/bin/eval-nonterms.pl -a auto/SEDE.100cutoff.withalign-i.sta.xml -g gold/SEDE.100cutoff.only-nts.sta.xml -h

Precision (all)	Recall (all)	Recall (good)	Recall (fuzzy)	F-score (P_all & R_all)	F-score (P_all & R_good)
85,3	  68,7	70,1   23,8	76,1   77,0

Here, we can see that although precision drops a bit, recall and the resulting F-scores drastically increase.

If we run eval-nonterms.pl on the word alignment data set, all scores will be 0 since we only measure the accuracy of non-terminal (constituent) alignments. However, note that the word alignment set post-processed with the heuristic method results in a set with a high accuracy, but with a low recall. Interestingly, the F-scores are even better than those of Lingua-Align! However, we must mention that this Lingua-Align score is much lower because its original model was trained on Europarl data only. If we look at a set containing only Europarl data, the Lingua-Align score is expected to be higher.

So now we have both gold standard and automatic output files for the training cutoff phase of TBLign. Apart from training, there are also development test and test sets. We have included alignment sets for those phases as well. To view them, go to these directories:

../devtest
../testset

The files for the training data set can be found here:

../trainset

Please refer to the main README file for further information, or contact the author at gidi8ster@gmail.com for any further questions.

Gideon Kotzé
21 July 2013

